now the world food program is warning
that parts of Gaza are at risk of famine
the United Nations agency says very
little food has made it past Southern
Gaza since the conflict began Israel
claims it has placed no restrictions on
Aid deliveries but Aid workers are
accusing Israeli forces of denying them
access to parts of Gaza the Hamas run
health authority in Gaza says more than
25,000 Palestinians have been killed in
the war
and for the very latest on the
humanitarian situation in Gaza we can
speak to William Schamberg he's the head
of the subd delegation for the
international Committee of the Red Cross
in Gaza joining us now from Rafa in the
southern Gaza Strip welcome to DW Mr
shamber thanks so much for your time the
the majority of displaced Palestinians
in Gaza are now in Rafa can you give us
a sense of the situation that they are
facing right
now good evening and thank you very much
uh the situation in Rafa is alarming uh
there are over 1 and a half million
displaced civilians that have moved
primarily from the north of the Gaza
Strip to the South uh access to healthc
care is extremely limited there are only
two functioning hospitals across the
Gaza Strip uh which are currently
approximate to where there are very
heavy ongoing hostilities and that's
coupled with the fact that um with the
cold weather
with the rain civilians are lacking
shelter uh there is very limited access
to clean drinking water or food and the
situation is becoming ever more
desperate for people that simply do not
have the means to cope and survive you
mentioned that only two hospitals in
Gaza are now functioning is the Red
Cross able to provide any help at all to
those
hospitals
so the icrc the international Committee
of the Red Cross has a medical surgical
team within the European Gaza hospital
where we've been treating uh casualties
and specifically the weapon wounded
including burned victims for several
weeks now we also uh have been able to
provide donations of Essential Medical
items including medication and other
types of consumables to different
hospitals since the hostilities began
however unfortunately this is dropping
the ocean of what is required and um
with all of the difficulties in terms of
Access to Health Care at present um what
we are able to provide simply is
outstripped uh enormously by the huge
needs that we witness on the ground only
66 a trucks entered Gaza yesterday as
we're hearing gazans are now facing
famine from your point of view what is
stopping aid from entering Gaza and
getting to the people who need it
I think there's a variety of different
considerations that have complicated the
entry of vitally needed assistance into
the Gaza Strip um some of those are
logistical some of those are political
um what we are concerned about is
squarely focusing on the humanitarian
needs and I think that sometimes we talk
a lot about the numbers of trucks um and
whether or not they are increasing or
decreasing we need a rapid escalation in
terms of uh both the quantity and the
variety of items that are able to come
into Gaza in order for those needs to be
met which we observe are only
increasing from what you're saying it's
understandable that diseases are now
spreading in gazer and I wanted to ask
you about that is there any way right
now to contain this spread of diseases
that we're seeing
there we are starting to hear alarming
reports about the growing prevalence of
different types of illness including
diarrhea as well as the frequency of
reported cases of hepatitis A um for the
time being it's obviously very difficult
for us to be able to assess that fully
um however as uh more rain starts to
come and it's it's rain this evening in
Rafa and more is forecasted for the days
ahead and as the weather gets warmer of
course that creates an environment in
which with such poor sanitary conditions
the probability of such illnesses uh
growing in prevalence becomes a major
risk uh for the weeks ahead William
chumber from the international Committee
of the Red Cross thanks so much for your
time thanks for bringing us up to
date thank
you